---
layout: post
title: "Filter your search"
order: 5
---

###*this article is in need of revision*


Once you have a results list from an initial query you can use our filters to further refine your search.  Your results list will change each time you apply a limit.  

Clicking on any of the listed terms within a filter will automatically apply that result as a filter; if you want to choose more than one term within a specific filter you must first check the boxes next to the terms you want to choose and then choose the desired option (( **limit to**, or **exclude**) or ("and", "or" or "exclude")) from the **apply** box in that section.
 
  * *Authors*--here you may chose to limit your search to include or exclude individual authors.  To do this choose one or more authors and the *apply* function will activate.  Here you can choose to "and", "or" or "exclude" authors from your resulting list. 
  * *Collections*--here you may chose to include or exclude results from the 3 ADS databases (Astronomy, Physics, General.  
  * *Refereed status*--here you may chose to include or exclude refereed or non-refereed publications
  * *Keywords*--here you may chose to narrow your results by including or excluding keywords that were found in the results of your original query (these are usually publisher supplied keywords.)   
  * *Publications*--here you may chose to narrow your results by including or excluding journals or other publications (conferences, books, etc.) that were found in the results of your original query. 
  * *Bib Groups*--here you may chose to include or exclude results from different BibGroups within the ADS
  * *Data*--here you may chose to include or exclude results that contain data in various archives (e.g. CDS, HEASARC, CXO, NED)
  * *Vizier Tables*--here you may chose to include or exclude articles that have Vizier Tables
 * *Grants*--here you may chose to include or exclude results that reference grant numbers that were recognized in the original  search


##Example
1. Search for author: "Huchra, John"
2. In the author filter you will get a list that includes "Geller, M." If you would click on the name "Geller, M." (or in the box in front of the name) in the list and you will be prompted to choose whether you want to "limit to" or "exclude" articles where Geller, M. is a coauthor.  
3. If you want the articles in which either "Geller, M." or "Illingworth, G" were coauthors with John Huchra you would click the boxes next to both of their names and you will be prompted to choose "and", "or" or "exclude."  Choosing "or" here will give you articles where either Geller, M. or Illingworth, G. is a coauthor.  
If you want the articles in which both "Geller, M." and "Illingworth, G" were coauthors you would click the boxes next to both of their names and choose "and" from the dropdown "apply" box. (There should be zero results for this query!)
